INLS 201
25 August, 2015
Module 1: Intro into the field

##What is the one big question that your readings didn’t answer?
* what is a bit? — “binary digit”; can only have 1 or 2 values (on or off, 0 or 1)

##What is information?
* we categorize because we are human
* categorization is the process in which ideas and objects are recognized, differentiated and understood
* need structure to find things
	* information retrieval systems help us find things
* structure has structure
* we need a common language to find things

##What kind of information are we talking about?
* laptops, phones, tablets, computers?
* people are “computers”!! — computing math, engineering jet engines, in past
* today, we have mechanical computers

##Information Video
* Watch & review

##So what is Information?
* “information is facts that were previously unknown”
* does it have economic value? — it depends on the question/context
* does it have to have meaning?
* does it need to move through a communication channel to be “info”? — it depends
*^^Claude Shannon thought that it needed to

##Pyramidal Model
* symbols —> data —> information —> knowledge
* people disagree how how the pyramid should be constructed
* some show it using info from past and future
* show different ways people think about information

##Things to think about from reading
* Symbols can represent different things (H is not pronounced as “H” in words)
* definitions of information
* information is a process, knowledge, and thing
* Marchionini: Information has “5 voices” (on slide)

##Information: only conveyed through words?
* No, can use symbols to express info — people will still understand 
* Ex: road signs use arrows, positioning, colors to express information
* people in information design try to use these ^^ same symbols to express info, use consistent standards

##WWII: France & Germany & Information
* French built fortifications against Germans b/c their past info suggested that was where they would be attacked
* Germans made “risky”, “not logical” plan, so French didn’t think it was a possibility
* Example of using information/how people process information to make decisions/plans


* meta data = “data about data”



